# graph_structure_estimation_complexdesignn
The repository is to provide open codes for estimating the adjacency matrix of the graph structure under complex sampling design. It is prepared for the manuscript " Structure estimation for undirected Graphical models in complex sampling design: the adjacency matrix"; 
It provides codes for simulations of the complex design : cluster and multi-stage design and the codes of using replication method to derive the adjacency matrix of a graph structure. 
The abstract: 
Complex sampling is widely used in health and epidemiological research and official statistics. The existing methods for Graphical model estimation assume that the sample data are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.). An extension from i.i.d. based estimation to non-i.i.d. based complex sampling estimation, thus become necessary. Here, the study proposes resampling methods to identify the graph structure, the adjacency matrix A , from multivariate (Gaussian and non-Gaussian) distributed data in complex sampling designs. Balanced Repeated Replication (BRR) and Jackknife Repeated Replication (JKR) estimation were used to derive the mean probability Pr(a_(i,j)=1) of each entry in the adjacency matrix A, and the mean largest eigenvalue of A.    The study used simulations of multistage and cluster sampling datasets, and National Health and Nutrition Survey (NHANS,2017-March,2020 Pre-Pandemic Data) for the comparison between different replication methods. Pseudo-populations were generated using the inverse probability through the survey weight from the complex sampling design in NHANS. The derived graph structure estimators A were compared by their overall structure using Spectral and Frobenius norms, and overall density using the Infinity norm. Spectral radius (the largest eigenvalue) was also compared in the NHANS case study.  In all simulations and case studies, JKR demonstrated advantages in n≤p even with small n in estimating the overall structure and density of the sample graph. BRR estimators are not inferior to JKR estimators when n > p > 1000, in Gaussian graph density. 
Keywords: Graph structure estimations in complex design, Replication methods of graph structure estimation, Pseudo population in complex design, NHANS, Network structure inference in complex design 

